(DOCSP-24142): Realm Web SDK <> Next.js integration guide (#2108)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/web/nextjs-realm-integration.txt

.. _nextjs-realm-integrate:

==============================
Use Next.js with Realm Web SDK
==============================

> .. default-domain:: mongodb

Author: ```suggestion
```

no need for this.

also add a page level table of contents

This guide covers integrating the Realm Web SDK into a
Next.js application. The Realm Web SDK allows users to access

> data from Atlas in web applications, such as those created using

Author: ```suggestion
data from MongoDB Atlas in web applications, such as those created using
```

> Next.js with Atlas App Services. Next.js is a React framework that

Author: ```suggestion
Next.js. Next.js is a React framework that
```

handles app configuration and structure, and supports client-side,

> server-side, and static rendering of your webapp. Each option

Author: ```suggestion
server-side, and static rendering. Each option
```

> server-side, and static rendering of your webapp. Each option
> utilizes the Realm Web SDK differently:

Author: ```suggestion
server-side, and static rendering. You can use 
the Realm Web SDK with each rendering method differently:
```

> - Client-side rendering allows you to link client Next.js code
>   with the Atlas Serverless Backend through the Realm Web SDK to
>   directly query MongoDB from the browser.

Author: ```suggestion
- Use the Realm Web SDK with client-side rendering to query MongoDB directly from the browser.
```

> - Realm Web SDK is best used with Server-side Next.js to pre-render
>   a page’s HTML on each request. When used with the Realm Web SDK, you
>   can pull Atlas data directly on page load.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Server-side rendering**: authenticate users with App Services from the browser and query using the GraphQL API on the server.
```

> - You can use Next.js Static Rendering with the Realm Web SDK to fetch
>   data from MondoDB Atlas and generate page HTML at build time.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Static rendering**: Fetch data from MondoDB Atlas to generate page content at build time.
```

> 
> This guide covers how to use the Realm Web SDK with Next.js client-side,
> server-side, and static rendering.

Author: ```suggestion
```

redundant post above suggestions

handles app configuration and structure, and supports client-side,
server-side, and static rendering of your webapp. Each option
utilizes the Realm Web SDK differently:

- Client-side rendering allows you to link client Next.js code
  with the Atlas Serverless Backend through the Realm Web SDK to
  directly query MongoDB from the browser.
- Server-side Next.js allows users to pre-render a page’s HTML on 
  each request. When used with the Realm Web SDK, you can use this
  functionality to pull Atlas data directly on page load.
- Next.js Static Rendering with the Realm Web SDK allos users to fetch
  data from MondoDB Atlas and generate page HTML at build time.

This guide covers how to use the Realm Web SDK with Next.js client-side,
server-side, and static rendering.

Before You Begin
================

Before using this integration guide, you should:

- Be familiar with Next.js. Consider referring to the `Next.js documentation <https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started>`__.
- `Create an Atlas App Services backend application <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/manage-apps/create/create-with-ui/#std-label-create-a-realm-app>`__.

> - Create a Next.js app. If creating a Next.js application for the first time,
>   consider referring to the `Next.js Tutorial <https://nextjs.org/learn/basics/create-nextjs-app>`__.

Author: ```suggestion
- Have a Next.js app.
```

you already told them to be familiar with Next.js, so shouldn't talk about if their first time

Install the Realm Web SDK in Your Next.js App
=============================================

This section shows you how to install the Realm Web SDK to use with your application.

> //get rid of Install the Web SDK header, why is that still there??

Author: idk but see note about ref on the include page

.. include:: includes/web-quickstart-install.rst

For more information, see the :ref:`Realm Web Installation <web-install>` documentation.

Add Authentication
==================

Before you can query MongoDB from your app, you must initialize the

> App Services client and authenticate a user. You can follow the steps

Author: ```suggestion
App Services client and authenticate a user with the Realm Web SDK.
You can follow the steps
```

below to connect the Realm Web SDK to client-side Next.js.

> In this example, we’re going to expose Realm authentication throughout

Author: ```suggestion
This example exposes App Services authentication throughout
```

> the app using React’s Context API. For additional ways to expose Realm

Author: ```suggestion
the app using React’s Context API. For additional ways to expose Realm
```

link to the react context docs - https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html

authentication throughout your application, refer to the Next.js

> authentication documentation.

Author: link to the next.js auth documentation

.. procedure::

>     .. step:: Create a context for Atlas App Services.

Author: ```suggestion
    .. step:: Create a context for Atlas App Services
```

        Generate a new application template using `create-react-app

>         <https://create-react-app.dev/>`__:

Author: this doesn't make sense

            .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/AppServicesContext.snippet.app-services-context.js
                :language: javascript

>     .. step:: Create a Custom App Wrapper

Author: keep capitalization of step titles consistent. only 1st letter of line

>         Create a custom ``App`` page wrapper that exposes the AppServices

Author: this line dones't make sense

        context to child components. Add the file ``pages/_app.js``.
        Include the Provider for your React Context.

            .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/_app.snippet.custom-app-wrapper.js

>                 :language: javascript

Author: the code block here includes some stuff that should only be added later (the useEffect hook and nookies import). refer to outline for details.

you can use bluehawk states to selectively include. see https://mongodb-university.github.io/Bluehawk/reference/tags#state

>     .. step:: Log the User in

Author: lowercase user

>         Access the ``app`` instance from AppServicesContext, and use it to log a

Author: ```suggestion
        Access the ``app`` instance from ``AppServicesContext``, and use it to log a
```

>         user in. Here, we’re going to do this automatically in the ``pages/index.js``

Author: see if you can refactor to not use "we're"/1st person plural.

        file to authenticate the user when they arrive to your app.

            .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/index.snippet.log-in-index-js.js
                :language: javascript

.. tip::

    See Also: `Quick Start (React) <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/web/react-web-quickstart/>`__.

Client-Side Rendering

> =====================

Author: ```suggestion
=====================

```

This section shows how you can integrate Next.js client-side rendering 
with the Realm Web SDK. Using this guide, you can directly query MongoDB 
and interact with an Atlas App Services serverless backend through 

> client-side JavaScript in your Next.js application. You can query MongoDB 

Reviewer: i worry that would be a Very long sentence?

using either MongoDB Data Access or the Atlas GraphQL API.

MongoDB Data Access
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Once the Realm Web SDK is initialized, you can use MongoDB Data Access to directly 

Author: ```suggestion
Once the ``App`` client is initialized and a user is authenticated,
you can use MongoDB Data Access to directly 
```

query MongoDB from client code in your application. 

Access the MongoDB Data Access interface from the ``app`` object you exposed with

> React Context. Use `App.User.mongoClient() <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm-sdks/js/latest/Realm-MongoDB.html>`__ to query MongoDB.

Author: make sure your capitalization is consistent on "React Context" throughout page. noticed some inconsistencies

Author: also, i think these lines are running a bit longer than the recommended. trying to keep <=80 chars is mongodb convention i think

    .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/mongodb-data-access.snippet.mongo-data-access.js
        :language: javascript

.. tip::

    For more comprehensive documentation of using MongoDB Data Access,

>     refer to `Query MongoDB <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/web/mongodb/>`__. 

Author: use ref her instead of link

Atlas GraphQL API
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Alternatively, you can use the Atlas GraphQL API to query MongoDB 

Author: ref to atlas graphql api here if you don't earlier on the page

> via GraphQL. The following is a code  example showing how to query 
> MongoDB using GraphQL. 

Author: ```suggestion
via GraphQL from Next.js client-side code.
```

.. procedure::

    .. step:: Install the Apollo client

        Apollo provides a package called `@apollo/client <https://www.npmjs.com/package/@apollo/client>`__

>         containing the relevant components needed to create a client.

Author: what type of client? specify

>         You must also install the `graphql <https://www.npmjs.com/package/graphql>`__ package.

Author: would be good to contextualize in a sentence w/in this paragraph *why* you want the user to install these packages.

        
        .. code-block:: shell
            

>             npm install @apollo/client graphql

Author: ```suggestion
            npm install @apollo/client graphql

```

    .. step:: Create GraphQL page.

        Create a new page for our GraphQL queries, ``pages/graphql.js``

>     .. step:: Import Dependencies

Author: add an empty line before the `.. step::` directives

Author: there's a lot of instances where you need to do

>         Import relevant Apollo Client dependencies and our AppServicesContext:

Author: ```suggestion
        Import relevant Apollo Client dependencies and our `AppServicesContext`:
```

            .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/graphql.snippet.apollo-imports.js
                :language: javascript
    .. step:: Create GraphQLProvider

        Create an ``ApolloClient`` GraphQL client and add it to the 
        ``GraphQLProvider`` component.  Wrap any components that call 
        the GraphQL API with the ``GraphQLProvider``.

        .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/graphql.snippet.apollo-provider.js
                :language: javascript
    .. step:: Query MongoDB

        Once the connection to the Apollo Client has been established, 
        you can query MongoDB as shown below to find a single entry in 
        a database by name. 

>             .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/graphql.snippet.mongo-query.js

Author: always add a new line before/after directives

                :language: javascript
    .. step:: Export

>         Export ``GraphQLConsumer`` wrapped in ``GraphQLProvider``.

Reviewer: rename to what?

            .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/graphql.snippet.full-graphql-page.js
            :language: javascript
All together, the graphQL page looks as follows: 
    .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/graphql.snippet.whole-code-ex.js
        :language: javascript       

.. tip::
    For more information on querying Atlas with the GraphQL API, refer 
    to the `Atlas GraphQL API <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/graphql/#queries>`__  
    and :ref:`Apollo Client (React) <graphql-apollo-react>` documentation.

Server-Side Rendering
=====================

This section shows how you can integrate Next.js server-side rendering 

> with Realm Web SDK. Use the Realm Web SDK with server-side rendering when 

Author: ```suggestion
with the Realm Web SDK. Use the Realm Web SDK with server-side rendering when 
```

> you want to access data as a specific user, applying `App Services Rules and Permissions <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/rules/>`__ 

Author: use a ref here, not link

to their queries. To query MongoDB Atlas directly from the Next.js server, 
you must set up two different components: Atlas GraphQL API on the Next.js 
server and Realm Web on the browser. 

You may want to integrate the Web SDK and Next.js for the following reasons:

- Access data stored in Atlas directly on page load.
- Apply Atlas App Services rules and permissions to requests to reduce server-side code.
- Reduce use of client-side JavaScript.

On a high level, the process for using the Realm Web SDK with Next.js 
server-side rendering is as follows:

> - Create an instance of your App Services backend app and log in the 

Author: if you make the below part procedure/step directives, refactor this as a numbered list

> - Create an instance of your App Services backend app and log in the 
>   needed user, saving the user's AccessToken as a cookie.

Author: ```suggestion
- Create an instance of your App Services backend app and log in a 
  user, saving the user's AccessToken as a cookie.
```

- Add functions to your Next.js app, including getStaticProps, which 
  allows you to set up pre-render. This function uses that previously-saved 

>   cookie.

Author: this is wrong. it's `getServerSideProps`. refactor first sentence. 

also make clear in the 2nd that the cookie coming from the browser and now being handled by the server

> - Add the data from getStaticProps to your website page, which will allow 

Author: again not getStaticProps, it's getServerSide props

  it to pre-render for every request.

.. note::
    While possible to use the MongoDB Data Access in server-side environments to query 
    MongoDB, it is not generally advisable. When used in server-side environments, MongoDB 
    Data Access makes requests from a user object, which would need to be re-authenticated 
    on every request.

The following steps can be used to connect the Read Web SDK to server-side
Next.js.

> 1. Install dependencies

Author: why isn't this a procedure/step directive?

Reviewer: this is the one with sub-steps, which you said to just remake as not a procedure, but realizing maybe you meant the substeps would be a list and keep the main steps as a procedure? i can do that

Author: correct

    Install the following npm packages:

        .. code-block:: shell

>             npm install nookies

Author: also the apollo and gql installs, no?

#. Update authentication to use cookies

    Update ``pages/_app.js`` to save the access token as a cookie. You need to save 
    it as a cookie to have it transfer to the server on every request. Do this in a 
    useEffect hook that runs every time there's a change in the user object. This hook 
    also creates a setInterval that updates the cookie every 20 minutes so that the 
    credential is reset in cookies before expiring.
        .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/_app.snippet.custom-app-wrapper.js
            :language: javascript
#. Server-side Render the Data

>     a. Create a new page file to perform the server-side rendering.

Author: why's there an 'a.' here?

Reviewer: its sub steps in the draft, so i wanted to do a, b, c, etc, bc if you just do another #., even indented, it will go back to 1, 2, 3

Author: yes, do `#.` as this will be within the procedure now

Reviewer: won't it number with number (1,2,3) instead of abc then? i feel like that may be confusing

    #. Import the relevant dependencies

        .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/server-side-rendering.snippet.server-side-imports.js
            :language: javascript
    #. Create a function that creates a server-side graphql client on every request with the user’s current auth token.
        
        .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/server-side-rendering.snippet.function-create.js
            :language: javascript        

>     #. Create the GraphQL request that to be used by the server to fetch data

Author: rephrase this sentence. hard to read

        .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/server-side-rendering.snippet.gql-request.js
            :language: javascript
    #. Use the Next.js `getServerSideProps <https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/data-fetching/get-server-side-props>`__ 
       function to perform the following:
        i. Parse access token from  cookies.           

>         #. Create a graphql client with the access token.

Author: watch naming/capitalization on GraphQL

        #. Run the GraphQL query.               
        #. Return data to be used in the server-side render.

            .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/server-side-rendering.snippet.server-side-props.js
            :language: javascript  
    #. Render the data.

        .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/server-side-rendering.snippet.render-page.js
        :language: javascript
        
All together, server-side rendering page looks as follows:

     .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/server-side-rendering.snippet.whole-code-ex.js
            :language: javascript

> .. tip::
> 
>     See also: :ref:`Alternative ways to Query MongoDB from Next.js section <alternate-ways>`

Author: ```suggestion
.. seealso::

    :ref:`Alternative ways to Query MongoDB from Next.js section <alternate-ways>`
```

Static Rendering
================

You can use the Realm Web SDK with Next.js static rendering to pull data from 

> MondoDB Atlas and generate page HTML at build time.

Author: ```suggestion
MondoDB Atlas and generate page data at build time.
```

> You can use this integration to supplement your app by adding:

Author: ```suggestion
You can use this integration to supplement your app by adding:

```

- content management system data
- configuration information

> - internationalized content

Author: capitalize first letters of each line

> .. procedure::

Author: add line breaks through out this procedure/step directive. see other pages for reference

>     .. step:: Creating and Guarding your API Key

Author: only capitalize 1st letter

        You need to create a Server API key for authentication. Follow the steps 
        on the API Key Configuration page to complete this step. 
        Then, in your next.js app, navigate to the app folder:

            .. code-block:: shell 

>                 cd next-api-key

Author: this doesn't seem right. why would you have a directory for api key?

        Create a `.env.local` file. Unlike normal `.env` files, the variables stored 
        inside are not accessible from the browser, only from your local Next 

>         environment. Store your key as a variable in this file, for example:

Author: this is not a true statement. refer to the next.js env docs for behavior https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables

Reviewer: "By default environment variables are only available in the Node.js environment, meaning they won't be exposed to the browser." so wouldn't that be true? unless .env.local isn't default?

Author: per the next.js docs, you expose env variables in the browser by prefixing them with `NEXT_PUBLIC_`. see https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables#exposing-environment-variables-to-the-browser

Reviewer: I think I'm just confused about what the issue is -- i thought we didn't use NEXT_PUBLIC with the API key at all? i thought we just put it unexposed in the env.local file and then brought it into the browser with process.env.REALM_API_KEY

            .. code-block:: javascript        

>                 REALM_API_KEY = process.env.REALM_API_KEY;

Author: also what's happening in this line? why are you assigning something from process.env to a globally scoped JS variable?

Reviewer: i want to be able to show how you use process.env, bc originally it was just the previous code block and you had asked to use process.env, but we wouldn't use process.env for that line (bc its within .env.local still). this is what the line looks like in our code but I was worried it was confusing bc both variables are named REALM_API_KEY, but we could go back and change one

Author: i don't fully understand what you're saying here. why wouldn't we use process.env?

Reviewer: not this line the earlier one! "REALM_API_KEY = secret_code;" in the draft i had that code block where I was saying you need to privately store your key, and you commented on that saying to change it to use process.env. I figured you didn't mean for that code block, bc you don't use process.env Within the env.local file. So, I added a second code block that showed how to use process.env to access the REALM_API_KEY stored in env.local from the browser side

>         Then, you can reference this variable in a file within the `pages/api` folder. 

Author: we don't use the pages/api directory at all. not sure what talking about here

        On the client side, you can fetch from said file to log in, without the client 
        being able to directly access the secret key.               
    .. step:: Perform static rendering with  `getStaticProps()`. 

        If exported from a page in your app, `getStaticProps()` pre-renders the page at 
        build time. `getStaticProps`  can also be used to directly query the MongoDB database.

        In order to pre-render your page using `getStaticProps()`, connect your Next.js app 

>         to the Realm Web SDK. Then, you can use `getStaticProps()` to fetch external data. 

Author: ```suggestion
        to the Realm Web SDK. Then, you can use `getStaticProps()` to fetch data from MongoDB. 
```

        The below example shows how to set up this code.

        .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/web/static.snippet.static-render-ex.js
                :language: javascript

> .. _alternate-ways:

Author: ```suggestion
.. _mongodb-next-alternate-ways:

```

Author: ref should be more specific. remember, they're global for for whole site

> Alternate ways to query MongoDB from Next.js 

Author: make titke case

============================================

You can query MongoDB from Next.js in several ways besides the Realm Web SDK:

- Integrate MongoDB with your Next.js application and execute your MongoDB queries 
  using the MongoDB Node. Driver. For more information, see the blog post `How to 
  Integrate MongoDB Into Your Next.js App <https://www.mongodb.com/developer/languages/javascript/nextjs-with-mongodb/>`__.
- Use the MongoDB Data API to query MongoDB Atlas from the Next.js server.  For 

>   more information, see `Data API Endpoints <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/data-api/generated-endpoints/>`__.

Author: make ref

Reviewer: for the first one too? is that a thing you can do even though it's not in the docs proper?

.. note::
    These alternate methods are incompatible with App Services rules and permissions. 

>     See `Rules — Atlas App Services <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/rules/>`__.

Author: make ref
